one of the questions that always comes
up about the tearing wines is the fact
that we don't use sulfites the issue
around sulfites is essentially it's a
preservative that that's added to wine
at the fermentation to either inhibit or
kill the natural yeast and then later in
the benefi keishon and ageing of the
line it's used as a preservative an
antioxidant to preserve freshness
we at couture winery have not used
sulfur dioxide so2 from the very
beginning our first vintage is super as
a professional winery was in 1979 in 28
years we have never put anything in the
wine nothing's added to it nothing's
taken away but this has always been a
very complex issue about our wines
people sometimes it gets in the way of
what people think about in terms of the
wine that we're what makes that
difference and one of the things I
firmly believe it's my opinion is that
so2 sulfur dioxide is a poison and
essentially it should not be in any food
product that were ingesting I think that
so2 inhibits obviously inhibits the not
in the native East that we use we use
natural yeast and all our fermentation
it also gets in the way of the fruit
there's and allow the fruit to be
expressed and as well as it could be in
the wine but more importantly it really
diminishes and if used at high enough
levels takes away to our the taste of
Earth the sense of place of a wine which
i think is probably one of the most
important aspects of wine wine would for
that matter all food should really have
an expression of where it came from it
should really be able to taste taste the
produce taste the meat taste the fruit
taste the wine taste the beer and really
give to the consumer a very clear idea
that this actually came from somewhere
and I think using organic and biodynamic
growing methods and limiting the use of
any chemicals in our food it's going to
make a huge difference no I'm saying
not so much as trying to convince or
criticize other ways that wine are made
this is a way that we choose to do it
and I think we should be given the same
respect that all other wines are given I
mean there's plenty of choices and I
think that's what as human beings and as
adults we really need is to have choices
and that's what I'm really putting out
there I think that in the aspect of
truth of labeling and go hand in hand I
think that you know whatever is put into
any food product should be listed on the
label right now in the wine business
only sulfur dioxide has to be on the
label there's plenty of other additives
that can be put into wine that do not
have to be mentioned there was a poll
taken and I blame upwards to 83% of the
American population wants to know what
they're putting into their bodies when
they ingest something the criticism
being that if there was truth in
labeling and in wine or the products the
consumer would would be put off by it
not understanding what these things are
and stop buying it I think I don't think
that's the issue a product as simple as
Twinkies has complete label disclosure
and they're sure not going out of
business with them so I think the very
first step is to really get some truth
in labeling going in our wine industry